So far, we have done all our package management
utilities et cetera, from the command line.
But all distributions do include some graphical interface for package management.
On recent Red Hat-based systems,
the yumex, for extended yum,
I guess, utility is designed for that purpose.
So, first, let's make sure that it's actually installed on the system. So, I can do
"which yumex". This is on a CentOS 7 system.
It's not installed, so let's install it.
So, "sudo yum install yumex".
It has to check repositories.
You see it did find it and it needs also some Python packages,
and it found that in the EPEL repository,
the Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux,
which does not come with a base CentOS or Red Hat installation,
but it comes from the Fedora people, and the EPEL repository works very well.
So, now I can just run this with yumex,
and it's going to tell me I need to give the root password
because it has the ability to install and remove, et cetera, packages.
Now, you see it's listing updates that the system needs.
I haven't run "yum update" on the system for a while,
I can click on Install Packages.
So, it's looking at generating a list of
all the packages which are installed on the system.
If I were to check one of them, let's say ImageMagick,
that would be implying that the change I want to make is to remove it.
Likewise, if I go to Available,
let's pick something we haven't gotten already installed and, of course,
it's inquiring from the repos all the stuff that's available that we haven't installed,
so it takes a little time.
We'll just pick something at random.
Let's pick this one, Agda.
It's a computer language.
Then if I go look at the "Apply" button down in the corner here,
it's figuring out what it would like to do.
It's telling me it would install Agda, then it would remove ImageMagick.
Then, it'll have to install all these different packages here for Agda to work properly.
So, I'm not actually going to do this, but if I were to say okay,
then it would do this.
Notice I only looked at Available, and Installed and Updates.
I can also look at Categories, for instance,
where it would list things by category or groups,
where it shows the different groups around the system.
For instance, under Desktops,
if I expand that out,
you'll see the different desktops available like GNOME, et cetera.
If I were to click on GNOME,
it would install everything needed for GNOME that it doesn't have already,
and if I click on KDE,
it would install the KDE desktop, et cetera.
So, let me get out of this.
Next, I will show you a brief demonstration
on Fedora, which has a somewhat different setup.
So, now let's experiment with this on Fedora 25.
Now, Fedora doesn't actually use yum anymore,
it uses dnf, which is a modern replacement for it.
So, it turns out yumex is no longer called yumex,
it's called yumex-dnf, which is not installed here,
so I just showed above there.
So, let's install it.
So, "sudo dnf install yumex-dnf".
That should go out and get that from its main repository.
We haven't done an update on the system for a little while, so it has
to download all the repo information, which unfortunately takes a little bit of time.
But it's doing that. You'll see the interface on Fedora,
the graphical user application has a newer interface with some more capabilities,
probably a more pleasant look if you tend that way,
and that's typical, Fedora's development version
of Red Hat and CentOS is based on Red Hat,
so that's a pretty common situation.
We're just waiting for it to actually get the information about installing.
Okay, so it's getting more repo information,
this one from a smaller repo: the Updates repo.
It's seeing whether or not there's
actually a newer version than what's in the original repo.
Okay. So, it's not very big,
it's just 1.3 megabytes,
but it needs once again to install some Python packages.
So, now it's installed,
so let's run "yumex-dnf".
You notice on Fedora
it didn't ask me for a password,
but I'm sure it would if I actually try to remove or install anything.
So, while it looks different,
the information's basically the same.
So, here, we're in Updates.
Once again, I can click on something like ImageMagick in Installed,
and then, under Available,
I can click on something like NetworkManager-bluetooth,
or, in fact, let's go to the same thing we did on the other machine if it's there,
I don't see it actually.
Oh, there it is. Okay, set language again.
The question is where's the Apply button?
Oh, I have to click on Queue.
Okay, there is no Apply button.
If I click on Queue,
it's telling me what it would like to do and see more details.
It's not as obvious what I have to click on to make the operations complete,
but in this box here,
I can click on "Apply pending actions" and it's going to ask me to do the same things.
Okay? I don't want to remove Emacs,
so I don't really want to play with this,
but I will just hit "Cancel", but if I were to hit "OK",
it would ask me for a password.
So, you see Fedora is essentially the same, except yum has become dnf,
and it has a somewhat newer GUI than it did on CentOS.